So let's add a new page to our project. We could add it next to the index.html file,
we could simply add a new HTML file to make sure that our application stays structured and doesn't
get confusing,
I'll create a subfolder for that page and I'll name it packages because we will show the different packages
of our app. Now in there, I'll create a HTML file and you can name that file whatever you want but I'll stick
to index.html which is kind of what you use in web development
it you have like a root file, a root HTML file within the folder.
So that's my index.html file and in there, I'll now simply copy the content of the other, of the main
index.html file on the root folder, so the one we worked in all the time.
I copied that because I want to use the same skeleton,
I want to also import the same fonts there because we used them there in the index.html file in
the packages folder and of course, we also want to use the same header and footer.
So I will just paste that code in here
but of course get rid of all the content in the main area here.
So this should be empty,
we just have the header and footer.
We also need to adjust the links now in the header,
here for example for packages
we are in the packages folder, so this is just pointing to that index.html
file here, for the other folders
though, we need to go up one level with ../ and then into the customers folder or for start
hosting ../start hosting and we don't have these folders yet, we'll add them later
and for the main page here on our brand, we also need to go up one level with ../ and then
target this index.html file
you'll find there.
So this is the adjusted header.
I don't think we need the ant style in here by the way,
I don't think we'll use it here, so
let's get rid of that import on this index.html file in the packages folder.
And regarding the CSS file we're importing,
well we should probably split this up over multiple files too because I don't want to import all the
CSS code I use on the starting page into the packages page and the same is true the other way around
because both pages use different styles and they don't care about the styles
the other page uses. There are some shared styles, like the header or the footer but that's about it.
So what we should do is we should create a new CSS file next to the main.css file which you
can call whatever you want but I will call it shared.css and into this file, I'll copy my footer
code as well as my header and navigation code,
I'll cut it out of the main.css file and add it to the shared.css file and I'll
also add this button style there which we defined, here
all the button related classes and selectors because that also probably is shared across pages,
so let's also add these declarations to the shared file.
So the main.css file is leaner now, we added content to the shared.css file,
we now need to import that shared.css file into our main root folder index.html file,
otherwise our header will not look good.
I can prove this to you if we save all files and reload,
that's not looking good because we extracted the styles into a new file.
So let's add a new link here,
shared.css
and let's actually move it above the import of the main.css.
Why?
Because in the shared file, we set up some general styles, general button styles
for example. We always want to have the chance of overwriting them in our more specific page focused
file, like the main.css
file for the root index.html file and to allow this overwriting to take place,
we need to respect the order here because this is imported and parsed first,
this is parsed second,
so if we want to overwrite something from the shared file, we need to import the overwriting file second,
so that it's parsed later because later styles overwrite earlier ones
if they have the same selector. So this is the import
layout or the import structure in the main index.html file. In the packages folder,
we now also import the shared.css file
and this is actually imported from the root folder, so
let's go up there with ../ and I will add a new file here,
the packages.css file, here we will really just add the styles for this packages
index.html file.
Let's add a new link import here and there
I will just point to packages.css. Again this is added after the shared file so that
we have at least the possibility of overwriting any styles we set up in the shared.css file.
With all that said, if we save that and we reload our starting page, it should look good again and it does
and the packages link here should actually work now.
Now what we can see here is that fonts are missing and the reason for this is that I forgot to extract
something in main.css at the very top,
this universal selector as well as the body, that should also go into the shared file because that of
course applies to our entire page, to all pages.
So let's move that to the top of the shared.css file and
now if we reload this packages
sub-page, let me zoom in a bit,
now it looks exactly as our starting page when it comes to the header and the footer.
And with that, we can start working on that packages page and we will add some code to it in the
next lecture and then started working on the styling.